reference/bpvars-package.md, before:

# Forecasting with Bayesian Panel Vector Autoregressions

Provides Bayesian estimation and forecasting of dynamic panel data using
Bayesian Panel Vector Autoregressions with hierarchical prior
distributions. The models include country-specific VARs that share a
global prior distribution that extend the model by Jarociński (2010)
[doi:10.1002/jae.1082](https://doi.org/10.1002/jae.1082) . Under this
prior expected value, each country's system follows a global VAR with
country-invariant parameters. Further flexibility is provided by the
hierarchical prior structure that retains the Minnesota prior
interpretation for the global VAR and features estimated prior
covariance matrices, shrinkage, and persistence levels. Bayesian
forecasting is developed for models including exogenous variables,
allowing conditional forecasts given the future trajectories of some
variables and restricted forecasts assuring that rates are forecasted to
stay positive and less than 100. The package implements the model
specification, estimation, and forecasting routines, facilitating
coherent workflows and reproducibility. It also includes automated
pseudo-out-of-sample forecasting and computation of forecasting
performance measures. Beautiful plots, informative summary functions,
and extensive documentation complement all this. An extraordinary
computational speed is achieved thanks to employing frontier econometric
and numerical techniques and algorithms written in 'C++'. The 'bpvars'
package is aligned regarding objects, workflows, and code structure with
the R packages 'bsvars' by Woźniak (2024)
[doi:10.32614/CRAN.package.bsvars](https://doi.org/10.32614/CRAN.package.bsvars)
and 'bsvarSIGNs' by Wang & Woźniak (2025)
[doi:10.32614/CRAN.package.bsvarSIGNs](https://doi.org/10.32614/CRAN.package.bsvarSIGNs)
, and they constitute an integrated toolset. Copyright: 2025
International Labour Organization.

## Details

The package provides a set of functions for predictive analysis with the
Bayesian Hierarchical Panel Vector Autoregression.

**The Model.** The model specification is initiated using function
[`specify_bvarPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/specify_bvarPANEL.md)
that creates an object of class `BVARPANEL` containing the prior
specification, starting values for estimation, data matrices, and the
setup of the Monte Carlo Markov Chain sampling algorithm.

The model features country-specific Vector Autoregressive (VAR) equation
for `N` dependent variables with `T_c` observations for each country
`c`. Its equation is given by \$\$\mathbf{Y}\_c =
\mathbf{A}\_c\mathbf{X}\_c + \mathbf{E}\_c\$\$ where \\\mathbf{Y}\_c\\
is an `T_c x N` matrix of dependent variables for country `c`,
\\\mathbf{X}\_c\\ is a `T_c x K` matrix of explanatory variables,
\\\mathbf{E}\_c\\ is an `T_c x N` matrix of error terms, and
\\\mathbf{A}\_c\\ is an `NxK` matrix of country-specific autoregressive
slope coefficients and parameters on deterministic terms in
\\\mathbf{X}\_c\\. The parameter matrix \\\mathbf{A}\_c\\ includes
autoregressive matrices capturing the effects of the lagged vectors of
dependent variables at lags from 1 to `p`, a constant term and a set of
exogenous variables.

The error terms for each of the periods have zero conditional mean and
conditional covariance given by the `NxN` matrix \\\mathbf{\Sigma}\\.
The errors are jointly normally distributed and serially uncorrelated.
These assumptions are summarised using a matrix-variate normal
distribution (see Woźniak, 2016): \$\$\mathbf{E}\_c \sim
MN(\mathbf{0}\_{T_c x N}, \mathbf{\Sigma}, \mathbf{I}\_{T_c})\$\$ where
the identity matrix \\\mathbf{I}\_{T_c}\\ of order `T_c` and joint
normality imply no serial autocorrelation. Matrix \\\mathbf{0}\_{T_c x
N}\\ denotes a `T_c x N` matrix of zeros.

**Global Prior Distributions.** The Hierarchical Panel VAR model
features a sophisticated hierarchical prior structure that grants the
model flexibility, interpretability, and improved forecasting
performance.

The country-specific parameters follow a prior distribution that, at its
mean value, represents a global VAR model with a global autoregressive
parameter matrix \\\mathbf{A}\\ of dimension `KxN` and an `NxN` global
covariance matrix \\\mathbf{\Sigma}\\: \$\$\mathbf{Y}\_c =
\mathbf{AX}\_c + \mathbf{E}\_c\$\$ This global VAR model under the prior
mean is represented by the parameters of the matrix-variate normal
inverted Wishart distribution (see Woźniak, 2016) given by:
\$\$\mathbf{A}\_c, \mathbf{\Sigma}\_c \| \mathbf{A}, \mathbf{V},
\mathbf{\Sigma}, \nu \sim MNIW(\mathbf{A}, \mathbf{V}, (N - \nu -
1)\mathbf{\Sigma}, \nu)\$\$ where \\V\\ is a `KxK` column-specific
covariance matrix, \\(N - \nu - 1)\mathbf{\Sigma}\\ is the row-specific
matrix, and \\\nu \> N+1\\ is the degrees-of-freedom parameter.

All of the parameters of the prior distribution above feature their own
prior distributions and are estimated. These prior distributions are
given by: \$\$\mathbf{A} \| \mathbf{V}, m, w, s \sim MN
(m\underline{\mathbf{M}}, \mathbf{V}, s\underline{\mathbf{S}} ) \$\$
with the `KxN` mean matrix \\m\underline{\mathbf{M}}\\, the `KxK`
column-specific covariance matrix \\\mathbf{V}\\, and the `NxN` matrix
of row-specific covariance \\s\underline{\mathbf{S}}\\.

The global error term covariance matrix, \\\mathbf{\Sigma}\\, follows a
Wishart distribution with `NxN` scale matrix
\\s\underline{\mathbf{S}}\_\Sigma\\ and shape parameter
\\\underline{\mu}\_\Sigma\\ \$\$\mathbf{\Sigma} \| s, \nu \sim
W(s\underline{\mathbf{S}}\_\Sigma,\underline{\mu}\_\Sigma)\$\$

**Other Prior Distributions.** The column-specific covariance
\\\mathbf{V}\\ follows the inverse-Wishart distribution with scale
\\w\underline{\mathbf{W}}\\ and shape \\\underline{\eta}\\:
\$\$\mathbf{V} \| w \sim IW(w\underline{\mathbf{W}},
\underline{\eta})\$\$ The shape parameter \\\nu\\ follows an exponential
distribution with mean \\\underline\lambda\\: \$\$\nu
\sim\exp(\underline\lambda)\$\$ Finally, the priors for the remaining
scalar hyper-parameters are: \$\$m \sim N(\underline{\mu}\_m,
\underline{\sigma}\_m^2)\$\$ \$\$w \sim G(\underline{s}\_w,
\underline{a}\_w)\$\$ \$\$s \sim IG2 (\underline{s}\_s,
\underline{\nu}\_s)\$\$

The prior hyper-parameters in this note are grouped into those that are:

- fixed:

  and denoted using underscore, such as e.g. \\\underline{\mathbf{M}}\\,
  \\\underline{\mu}\_\Sigma\\, or \\\underline{\nu}\_s\\. These
  hyper-parameters must be fixed and their default values are set by
  initiating the model specification using function
  [`specify_bvarPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/specify_bvarPANEL.md).
  These values can be accesses from such generated object in its element
  `prior` and can be modified by the user.

- estimated:

  not featuring the underscore in the notation, such as e.g.
  \\\mathbf{A}\\, \\\mathbf{\Sigma}\\, or \\m\\. These hyper-parameters
  are estimated and their posterior draws are available from an object
  generated after the estimation running the function `estimate`.

**Estimation.** The package implements Bayesian estimation using the
Gibbs sampler. This algorithm provides a sample of random draws from the
posterior distribution of the parameters of the model. The posterior
distribution is defined by Bayes' Rule stating that the posterior
distribution of the parameters given data and is proportional to the
likelihood function and the prior distribution of the parameters:
\$\$p(\mathbf{\theta} \| \mathbf{Y}) \propto L(\mathbf{\theta};
\mathbf{Y}) p(\mathbf{\theta})\$\$ where \\\mathbf{\theta}\\ collects
all the parameters of the model to be estimated. At each of its
iterations a single draw of all of the parameters of the model,
including the estimated hyper-parameters, is obtained. This Bayesian
procedure estimates jointly all the parameters of the model and is
implemented in the
[`estimate.BVARPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/estimate.BVARPANEL.md)
and
[`estimate.PosteriorBVARPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/estimate.PosteriorBVARPANEL.md)
functions.

**Forecasting.** The package implements Bayesian forecasting providing
the a sample of draws from the joint predictive density defined as the
joint density of the future unknown values to be predicted,
\\\mathbf{Y}\_f\\, given data, \\\mathbf{Y}\\ closely following Karlsson
(2013): \$\$p(\mathbf{Y}\_f \| \mathbf{Y})\$\$ The package offers the
possibility of:

- forecasting for models with exogenous variables:

  given the provided future values of the exogenous variables.

- conditional predictions:

  given provided future projections for some of the variables.

- trucated forecasts:

  for variables that represents rates from the interval \\\[0,100\]\\.

The forecasting is performed using function
[`forecast.PosteriorBVARPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/forecast.PosteriorBVARPANEL.md).

## Note

This package is currently in active development.

## References

Jarociński, M. (2010). Responses to Monetary Policy Shocks in the East
and the West of Europe: a Comparison. Journal of Applied Econometrics,
25(5), 833-868, [doi:10.1002/jae.1082](https://doi.org/10.1002/jae.1082)
.

Karlsson, S. (2013). Forecasting with Bayesian Vector Autoregression,
in: *Handbook of Economic Forecasting*, Elsevier. volume **2**, 791–897,
[doi:10.1016/B978-0-444-62731-5.00015-4](https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-444-62731-5.00015-4)
.

Woźniak, T. (2016). Bayesian Vector Autoregressions, *Australian
Economic Review*, **49**, 365-380,
[doi:10.1111/1467-8462.12179](https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-8462.12179) .

## See also

[`specify_bvarPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/specify_bvarPANEL.md),
[`estimate.BVARPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/estimate.BVARPANEL.md),
[`forecast.PosteriorBVARPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/forecast.PosteriorBVARPANEL.md)

## Author

Tomasz Woźniak <wozniak.tom@pm.me>

## Examples

``` r
# Basic estimation and forecasting example
############################################################
specification = specify_bvarPANEL$new(ilo_dynamic_panel[1:5]) # specify the model
burn_in       = estimate(specification, S = 5)          # run the burn-in; use say S = 10000
#> **************************************************|
#> bpvars: Forecasting with Bayesian Panel VARs      |
#> **************************************************|
#>  Progress of the MCMC simulation for 5 draws
#>     Every draw is saved via MCMC thinning
#>  Press Esc to interrupt the computations
#> **************************************************|
posterior     = estimate(burn_in, S = 5)                # estimate the model; use say S = 10000
#> **************************************************|
#> bpvars: Forecasting with Bayesian Panel VARs      |
#> **************************************************|
#>  Progress of the MCMC simulation for 5 draws
#>     Every draw is saved via MCMC thinning
#>  Press Esc to interrupt the computations
#> **************************************************|
predictive    = forecast(posterior, 2)                  # forecast the future       

# workflow with the pipe |>
ilo_dynamic_panel[1:5] |>
  specify_bvarPANEL$new() |>
  estimate(S = 5) |> 
  estimate(S = 5) |> 
  forecast(horizon = 2) -> predictive
#> **************************************************|
#> bpvars: Forecasting with Bayesian Panel VARs      |
#> **************************************************|
#>  Progress of the MCMC simulation for 5 draws
#>     Every draw is saved via MCMC thinning
#>  Press Esc to interrupt the computations
#> **************************************************|
#> **************************************************|
#> bpvars: Forecasting with Bayesian Panel VARs      |
#> **************************************************|
#>  Progress of the MCMC simulation for 5 draws
#>     Every draw is saved via MCMC thinning
#>  Press Esc to interrupt the computations
#> **************************************************|
```

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ bsvars/bpvars@ffbb450212816802328072e38a465b03155067bd 🚀

reference/bpvars-package.md, after:

# Forecasting with Bayesian Panel Vector Autoregressions

Provides Bayesian estimation and forecasting of dynamic panel data using
Bayesian Panel Vector Autoregressions with hierarchical prior
distributions. The models include country-specific Vector
Autoregressions (VARs) that share a global prior distribution that
extend the model by Jarociński (2010)
[doi:10.1002/jae.1082](https://doi.org/10.1002/jae.1082) . Under this
prior expected value, each country's system follows a global VAR with
country-invariant parameters. Further flexibility is provided by the
hierarchical prior structure that retains the Minnesota prior
interpretation for the global VAR and features estimated prior
covariance matrices, shrinkage, and persistence levels. Bayesian
forecasting is developed for models including exogenous variables,
allowing conditional forecasts given the future trajectories of some
variables and restricted forecasts assuring that rates are forecasted to
stay positive and less than 100. The package implements the model
specification, estimation, and forecasting routines, facilitating
coherent workflows and reproducibility. It also includes automated
pseudo-out-of-sample forecasting and computation of forecasting
performance measures. Beautiful plots, informative summary functions,
and extensive documentation complement all this. Extraordinary
computational speed is achieved thanks to employing frontier econometric
and numerical techniques and algorithms written in 'C++'. The 'bpvars'
package is aligned regarding objects, workflows, and code structure with
the R packages 'bsvars' by Woźniak (2024)
[doi:10.32614/CRAN.package.bsvars](https://doi.org/10.32614/CRAN.package.bsvars)
and 'bsvarSIGNs' by Wang & Woźniak (2025)
[doi:10.32614/CRAN.package.bsvarSIGNs](https://doi.org/10.32614/CRAN.package.bsvarSIGNs)
, and they constitute an integrated toolset. Copyright: 2025
International Labour Organization. The International Labour Organization
should not be held responsible for any issues arising from the use of
the 'bpvars' package or from the results obtained with it.

## Details

The package provides a set of functions for predictive analysis with the
Bayesian Hierarchical Panel Vector Autoregression.

**The Model.** The model specification is initiated using function
[`specify_bvarPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/specify_bvarPANEL.md)
that creates an object of class `BVARPANEL` containing the prior
specification, starting values for estimation, data matrices, and the
setup of the Monte Carlo Markov Chain sampling algorithm.

The model features country-specific Vector Autoregressive (VAR) equation
for `N` dependent variables with `T_c` observations for each country
`c`. Its equation is given by \$\$\mathbf{Y}\_c =
\mathbf{A}\_c\mathbf{X}\_c + \mathbf{E}\_c\$\$ where \\\mathbf{Y}\_c\\
is an `T_c x N` matrix of dependent variables for country `c`,
\\\mathbf{X}\_c\\ is a `T_c x K` matrix of explanatory variables,
\\\mathbf{E}\_c\\ is an `T_c x N` matrix of error terms, and
\\\mathbf{A}\_c\\ is an `NxK` matrix of country-specific autoregressive
slope coefficients and parameters on deterministic terms in
\\\mathbf{X}\_c\\. The parameter matrix \\\mathbf{A}\_c\\ includes
autoregressive matrices capturing the effects of the lagged vectors of
dependent variables at lags from 1 to `p`, a constant term and a set of
exogenous variables.

The error terms for each of the periods have zero conditional mean and
conditional covariance given by the `NxN` matrix \\\mathbf{\Sigma}\\.
The errors are jointly normally distributed and serially uncorrelated.
These assumptions are summarised using a matrix-variate normal
distribution (see Woźniak, 2016): \$\$\mathbf{E}\_c \sim
MN(\mathbf{0}\_{T_c x N}, \mathbf{\Sigma}, \mathbf{I}\_{T_c})\$\$ where
the identity matrix \\\mathbf{I}\_{T_c}\\ of order `T_c` and joint
normality imply no serial autocorrelation. Matrix \\\mathbf{0}\_{T_c x
N}\\ denotes a `T_c x N` matrix of zeros.

**Global Prior Distributions.** The Hierarchical Panel VAR model
features a sophisticated hierarchical prior structure that grants the
model flexibility, interpretability, and improved forecasting
performance.

The country-specific parameters follow a prior distribution that, at its
mean value, represents a global VAR model with a global autoregressive
parameter matrix \\\mathbf{A}\\ of dimension `KxN` and an `NxN` global
covariance matrix \\\mathbf{\Sigma}\\: \$\$\mathbf{Y}\_c =
\mathbf{AX}\_c + \mathbf{E}\_c\$\$ This global VAR model under the prior
mean is represented by the parameters of the matrix-variate normal
inverted Wishart distribution (see Woźniak, 2016) given by:
\$\$\mathbf{A}\_c, \mathbf{\Sigma}\_c \| \mathbf{A}, \mathbf{V},
\mathbf{\Sigma}, \nu \sim MNIW(\mathbf{A}, \mathbf{V}, (N - \nu -
1)\mathbf{\Sigma}, \nu)\$\$ where \\V\\ is a `KxK` column-specific
covariance matrix, \\(N - \nu - 1)\mathbf{\Sigma}\\ is the row-specific
matrix, and \\\nu \> N+1\\ is the degrees-of-freedom parameter.

All of the parameters of the prior distribution above feature their own
prior distributions and are estimated. These prior distributions are
given by: \$\$\mathbf{A} \| \mathbf{V}, m, w, s \sim MN
(m\underline{\mathbf{M}}, \mathbf{V}, s\underline{\mathbf{S}} ) \$\$
with the `KxN` mean matrix \\m\underline{\mathbf{M}}\\, the `KxK`
column-specific covariance matrix \\\mathbf{V}\\, and the `NxN` matrix
of row-specific covariance \\s\underline{\mathbf{S}}\\.

The global error term covariance matrix, \\\mathbf{\Sigma}\\, follows a
Wishart distribution with `NxN` scale matrix
\\s\underline{\mathbf{S}}\_\Sigma\\ and shape parameter
\\\underline{\mu}\_\Sigma\\ \$\$\mathbf{\Sigma} \| s, \nu \sim
W(s\underline{\mathbf{S}}\_\Sigma,\underline{\mu}\_\Sigma)\$\$

**Other Prior Distributions.** The column-specific covariance
\\\mathbf{V}\\ follows the inverse-Wishart distribution with scale
\\w\underline{\mathbf{W}}\\ and shape \\\underline{\eta}\\:
\$\$\mathbf{V} \| w \sim IW(w\underline{\mathbf{W}},
\underline{\eta})\$\$ The shape parameter \\\nu\\ follows an exponential
distribution with mean \\\underline\lambda\\: \$\$\nu
\sim\exp(\underline\lambda)\$\$ Finally, the priors for the remaining
scalar hyper-parameters are: \$\$m \sim N(\underline{\mu}\_m,
\underline{\sigma}\_m^2)\$\$ \$\$w \sim G(\underline{s}\_w,
\underline{a}\_w)\$\$ \$\$s \sim IG2 (\underline{s}\_s,
\underline{\nu}\_s)\$\$

The prior hyper-parameters in this note are grouped into those that are:

- fixed:

  and denoted using underscore, such as e.g. \\\underline{\mathbf{M}}\\,
  \\\underline{\mu}\_\Sigma\\, or \\\underline{\nu}\_s\\. These
  hyper-parameters must be fixed and their default values are set by
  initiating the model specification using function
  [`specify_bvarPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/specify_bvarPANEL.md).
  These values can be accesses from such generated object in its element
  `prior` and can be modified by the user.

- estimated:

  not featuring the underscore in the notation, such as e.g.
  \\\mathbf{A}\\, \\\mathbf{\Sigma}\\, or \\m\\. These hyper-parameters
  are estimated and their posterior draws are available from an object
  generated after the estimation running the function `estimate`.

**Estimation.** The package implements Bayesian estimation using the
Gibbs sampler. This algorithm provides a sample of random draws from the
posterior distribution of the parameters of the model. The posterior
distribution is defined by Bayes' Rule stating that the posterior
distribution of the parameters given data and is proportional to the
likelihood function and the prior distribution of the parameters:
\$\$p(\mathbf{\theta} \| \mathbf{Y}) \propto L(\mathbf{\theta};
\mathbf{Y}) p(\mathbf{\theta})\$\$ where \\\mathbf{\theta}\\ collects
all the parameters of the model to be estimated. At each of its
iterations a single draw of all of the parameters of the model,
including the estimated hyper-parameters, is obtained. This Bayesian
procedure estimates jointly all the parameters of the model and is
implemented in the
[`estimate.BVARPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/estimate.BVARPANEL.md)
and
[`estimate.PosteriorBVARPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/estimate.PosteriorBVARPANEL.md)
functions.

**Forecasting.** The package implements Bayesian forecasting providing
the a sample of draws from the joint predictive density defined as the
joint density of the future unknown values to be predicted,
\\\mathbf{Y}\_f\\, given data, \\\mathbf{Y}\\ closely following Karlsson
(2013): \$\$p(\mathbf{Y}\_f \| \mathbf{Y})\$\$ The package offers the
possibility of:

- forecasting for models with exogenous variables:

  given the provided future values of the exogenous variables.

- conditional predictions:

  given provided future projections for some of the variables.

- trucated forecasts:

  for variables that represents rates from the interval \\\[0,100\]\\.

The forecasting is performed using function
[`forecast.PosteriorBVARPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/forecast.PosteriorBVARPANEL.md).

## Note

This package is currently in active development.

## References

Jarociński, M. (2010). Responses to Monetary Policy Shocks in the East
and the West of Europe: a Comparison. Journal of Applied Econometrics,
25(5), 833-868, [doi:10.1002/jae.1082](https://doi.org/10.1002/jae.1082)
.

Karlsson, S. (2013). Forecasting with Bayesian Vector Autoregression,
in: *Handbook of Economic Forecasting*, Elsevier. volume **2**, 791–897,
[doi:10.1016/B978-0-444-62731-5.00015-4](https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-444-62731-5.00015-4)
.

Woźniak, T. (2016). Bayesian Vector Autoregressions, *Australian
Economic Review*, **49**, 365-380,
[doi:10.1111/1467-8462.12179](https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-8462.12179) .

## See also

[`specify_bvarPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/specify_bvarPANEL.md),
[`estimate.BVARPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/estimate.BVARPANEL.md),
[`forecast.PosteriorBVARPANEL`](http://bsvars.org/bpvars/reference/forecast.PosteriorBVARPANEL.md)

## Author

Tomasz Woźniak <wozniak.tom@pm.me>

## Examples

``` r
# Basic estimation and forecasting example
############################################################
specification = specify_bvarPANEL$new(ilo_dynamic_panel[1:5]) # specify the model
burn_in       = estimate(specification, S = 5)          # run the burn-in; use say S = 10000
#> **************************************************|
#> bpvars: Forecasting with Bayesian Panel VARs      |
#> **************************************************|
#>  Progress of the MCMC simulation for 5 draws
#>     Every draw is saved via MCMC thinning
#>  Press Esc to interrupt the computations
#> **************************************************|
posterior     = estimate(burn_in, S = 5)                # estimate the model; use say S = 10000
#> **************************************************|
#> bpvars: Forecasting with Bayesian Panel VARs      |
#> **************************************************|
#>  Progress of the MCMC simulation for 5 draws
#>     Every draw is saved via MCMC thinning
#>  Press Esc to interrupt the computations
#> **************************************************|
predictive    = forecast(posterior, 2)                  # forecast the future       

# workflow with the pipe |>
ilo_dynamic_panel[1:5] |>
  specify_bvarPANEL$new() |>
  estimate(S = 5) |> 
  estimate(S = 5) |> 
  forecast(horizon = 2) -> predictive
#> **************************************************|
#> bpvars: Forecasting with Bayesian Panel VARs      |
#> **************************************************|
#>  Progress of the MCMC simulation for 5 draws
#>     Every draw is saved via MCMC thinning
#>  Press Esc to interrupt the computations
#> **************************************************|
#> **************************************************|
#> bpvars: Forecasting with Bayesian Panel VARs      |
#> **************************************************|
#>  Progress of the MCMC simulation for 5 draws
#>     Every draw is saved via MCMC thinning
#>  Press Esc to interrupt the computations
#> **************************************************|
```
